Tying everything together this week has been crazy. It is so strange to think about how all of our different parts are finally coming together to create a real final project! Listening to Professor Stark on Tuesday work with one of the groups was interesting. I felt like that clarification could have been done earlier in the semester so we could have failed earlier, or in a different setting because I noticed a lot of people not paying attention because that did not directly concern them. I also noticed that when they did their presentation, they had not used all of the resources in class to the fullest potential - as the Analyzer 2 group had already faced these roadblocks and could have told them earlier. Besides these small complaints, I found Professor Stark talking about the MDA model to be very useful. As a part of a group that had also created code to integrate error diagrams, it was very important to understand the MDA model's error diagrams. 
I enjoyed Thursday's class and our ability to work together to discuss the presentation. I am glad we are emphasizing more than just our seismology project, but how we have actually worked on it and how this class is about the approach and process of science and not the results. Thursday's class helped me understand the big picture of this class agian. I had been getting frustrated because I am not a good programmer, so while I have been working with my group on how to write our code, I could not actually produce it. Similarly I haven't taken stochaistic processes, so while I understand the MDA model's math at a very basic level, I did not reach a full understanding of that either. Class reminded me how much I have actually learned from this class. I now see the absolute importance of reproducibility (learning from both the lectures and the frustrating experience of trying to work with Luen's code.) I also have begin to understand more how to make things reproducible - using comments, not referencing files on local hard drives. I am definitely going to take that with me when I move forward in my life to do research. The biggest thing I have learned was about collaboration. To me, it was more than just learning how to effectively communication in a group of seven (scheduling meetings, creating tasks and group goals) of even learning how to rely on other people in my group to help cover for skills that I don't have and help pick up their slack on things I can do. Mostly I have learned about how a big, very broad and daunting problem can be broken up in a way so that a class can tackle and solve it. I cannot wait until Thursday for all three posters to be complete, showing the final project of us collaborating together (and with the help of others outside of the class), so that everybody at the Data Science Fair can start learning what we have learned this semester.
